_docs/210-user_spldoc.md, before:

---
title: "SPL documentation"
permalink: /docs/user/SPLDoc/
excerpt: "SPL documentation."
last_modified_at: 2018-06-28T12:37:48+02:00
redirect_from:
   - /theme-setup/
sidebar:
   nav: "userdocs"
---
{% include toc %}
{%include editme %}

### v1.4.2 (latest)

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/spldoc/html/)

### Toolkit documentation for previous versions

#### v1.4.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.4.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.4.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.4.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.3

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.3/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.2

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.2/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.4

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.4/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.3

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.3/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.2

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.2/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.1.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.1.1/spldoc/html/)

Commit message:

spldoc for 1.5.0 alpha release added

_docs/210-user_spldoc.md, after:

---
title: "SPL documentation"
permalink: /docs/user/SPLDoc/
excerpt: "SPL documentation."
last_modified_at: 2018-06-28T12:37:48+02:00
redirect_from:
   - /theme-setup/
sidebar:
   nav: "userdocs"
---
{% include toc %}
{%include editme %}

### v1.4.2 (latest)

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/spldoc/html/)

#### Toolkit documentation for 1.5.0 alpha release

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.5.0.alpha/spldoc/html/)

Please note, that this toolkit release is an early pre-release, which still constains instabilities.

### Toolkit documentation for previous versions

#### v1.4.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.4.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.4.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.4.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.3

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.3/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.2

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.2/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.3.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.3.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.4

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.4/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.3

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.3/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.2

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.2/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.1/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.2.0

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.2.0/spldoc/html/)

#### v1.1.1

[Toolkit Documentation (SPLDoc)](/streamsx.kafka/doc/v1.1.1/spldoc/html/)
